hello my name is Joshua Brown from the
interview training company
howtobecome.com and in this presentation
I will teach you how to pass your
airline pilot interview so if you have
an interview coming up for an airline
pilot role and you need to prepare for
both the most common and the tough
compsy-based interview questions for any
Airline then please make sure you watch
this video from start to finish because
I'm going to help you to stand out and
succeed to achieve that goal this is
what we'll cover I'll start off by
giving you a list of airline pilot
interview questions that I strongly
recommend you prepare for including some
tough competency-based interview
questions such as tell me about a time
when you had to make a difficult
decision in the air I'll then provide
you with example high scoring answers to
those questions to help you to succeed
plus I'll also make sure to give you
some essential tips for passing your
airline pilot interview before finally
telling you how you can download
instantly these slides plus 21 great
answers to airline pilot interview
questions in a PDF guide and just very
quickly please don't forget to subscribe
to my channel because I want to help you
to pass your airline pilot interview by
giving you brilliant answers to the
toughest interview questions and I can
only do that if you are subscribed
please don't forget to hit that like
button because that tells me find these
tutorials useful okay let's take a look
at that very first airline pilot
interview question to prepare for which
is tell me about yourself and why you
want to be an airline pilot now this is
a brilliant opportunity to get your
interview off to a flying start and
impress the hiring manager you can be
the standout candidate by focusing your
answer on the skills and qualities that
you have not your home life or your
personal life unless it's relevant to
the job role itself instead focus on
your experience and your passion that
you have for working in the job role as
a pilot be sure to also focus on how
you're going to add value to their
airline in your answer another great tip
here is to make sure you study the job
description and focus on telling them
how your skills are a perfect match for
those that they desire so for example if
on the job description it states that
they're seeking someone who is safety
focused with great communication
abilities then throughout your airline
pilots into your answers be sure to use
those exact terms and back it up with
evidence okay let's take a look at our
brilliant top scoring answer to help you
tell me about yourself and why you want
to be an airline pilot thank you for
giving me the opportunity to be
interviewed for this airline pilot
position today I've always been the kind
of person who looks up when an airplane
goes by fascinated by the magic of
flight from making model planes as a kid
to studying aerospace engineering in
college Aviation has always been my true
north since getting my Airline transport
Pilots license I have been given a wide
range of responsibilities that have
helped me continuously develop I've
flown in difficult weather utilize
decision making skills when under
pressure and ensured the safety and
comfort of passengers on hundreds of
flights I've been fortunate enough to
work with various aircraft to hone my
skills as a pilot from small Regional
Jets to large airliners I am fully
equipped with their systems and controls
I consider myself to be a great
collaborator I have learned how
important it is to communicate well
delegate tasks and keep the mood upbeat
on every flight with all crew the way a
crew works together has a big effect on
how the flight goes as a whole and
knowing this has become a key part of my
Approach I believe that every flight is
a chance for a commercial pilot to learn
improve and grow I have a wide range of
skills that are based on safety and
accuracy for example I know how to fly
through complicated airspace and handle
the details of flight planning for short
and long-haul flights I believe this
experience makes me a great fit for your
airline and I'm eager to keep using my
skills to fly your passengers to their
destination safely making their trips
and memories possible
wow what a powerful way to kick-start
your interview and be the standout
candidate Remember by giving a confident
answer like this to that opening
interview question not only will you
impress the hiring manager and the
interview panel but you'll also gain
confident in the rest of your answers to
come okay let's take a look at the next
airline pilot interview question which
is tell me about a time you had a
conflict in the flight deck now two tips
here number one you must demonstrate a
conflict that you have faced that you
resolved positively and that's really
important you must have resolved it in a
positive way and I'll show you how to do
that in my example answer as a pilot you
will face challenges with others and the
teams you lead you'll be expected to
handle any conflict in a positive
forward-thinking and Cooperative manner
tip number two my advice is to structure
your answer using the star method so
when answering any behavioral or
Community Based interview question like
this one such as tell tell me about a
time when describe to me a situation
when explain a time when you did this
any question that starts like that is a
behavioral or competency-based interview
question you're going to get plenty in
your airline pilot interview so when
answering a question like that one
struck your answer using the star method
so star stands for s for situation what
was the situation you found yourself in
T is for task what was the task that
needed to be carried out a is for Action
what action did you take to achieve the
task R is for result what was the end
result for in your actions again make
sure it's a positive end result and
finally the second R is for reflection
what did you learn from the experience
by following this structure you can
deliver a top scoring answer to any
behavioral interview question so let's
take a look at top scoring answer to
that question tell me about the time you
had a conflict in the flight deck one
time comes to mind when I was on a
cross-country flight and and my co-pilot
and I encountered an unexpected conflict
in the flight deck we had different
interpretations of the weather
conditions at our destination he
believed the weather was within
acceptable limits but I had reservations
about the possibility of turbulence and
Crosswinds as Pilots it is our duty to
ensure the safety of all of those on
board I didn't want the tension to
worsen so I set out promptly to solve
the conflict swiftly and constructively
I suggested that we take a moment to
look over the weather data and no terms
together to make sure that we had the
most accurate and up-to-date information
this brief pause gave us a chance to get
together and look at the situation from
all sides we talked openly about what we
thought and made sure that we had the
most accurate information this not only
ended the conflict but also helped us
work better as a team we agreed on a
strategy to alter our approach plan and
we landed safely in the end we saw that
we both had good points and that our
main goal was to keep the flight and the
people on it safe we heard on the side
of caution even though the conditions
might have been within the regulatory
limits because we took a moment to stop
talk openly and look at the data this
experience taught me how important it is
to keep a professional but positive
attitude when dealing with conflicts our
ability to talk about our differences
openly understand each other's point of
view and work together to find a
solution not only solve the problem but
also made us a stronger team now don't
go anywhere as I still have more
interview questions and answers to give
you but when you're ready click that
link in the top right hand corner it
will take you to my website
howtobecome.com where you can download
my 21 airline pilot interview questions
and answers for all Airlines to give you
the edge in your interview including the
ones that we're covering right now okay
here's the next airline pilot interview
question for you what is your greatest
weakness tip number one do not say that
you are a perfectionist nearly everyone
does this during their pilot interview
and it won't score you any marks in fact
it may even make you fail as it is
unrealistic and shows the interview that
you can't recognize your areas of needed
Improvement so instead provide a
weakness that is genuine but one that is
not a match for the job description
always turn your weakness into a
positive and or show that it is an area
where you are taking it upon yourself to
improve okay let's look at brilliant top
scoring answer to help you what is your
biggest weakness although I am confident
in my ability as a pilot I appreciate
that I only obtained my Airline
transport pilot's license a couple of
years ago and there are other Pilots
with Decades of flight experience out
there who may have applied for this
position too however I have dedicated my
entire career to date to becoming a
commercial airline pilot and I believe
my drive hunger and passion to perform
well Forge a long career with your
airline and develop into a
well-respected pilot makes me stand out
from other candidates okay the next
airline pilot interview question is why
do you want to work for our Airline this
is a really common one so tip number one
this interview question is common but
tough it's designed to weed out those
who are implying on mass to all Airlines
the hiring managers instead want to find
those that truly respect and have a
desire to work for their airline in
particular so you must demonstrate your
passion for working for their Airline
show that you understand their brand and
reputation and that you have a
commitment to wanting to work for their
Airline for the long term that's really
important because they don't want to
spend time money and resources hiring
and training and investing in you as an
individual for you only to move on to a
different Airline or career path within
a couple of months so let's take a look
at top scoring answer to help you why do
you want to work work for our Airline
there are several reasons why I want to
join your airline firstly your airline
is one that I have long desired to work
for ever since I began my journey to
become a commercial airline pilot
because it is such a great reputation in
the aviation industry your dedication to
operational excellence safety and
customer satisfaction matches my own
high standards I really like that your
airline has high standards for training
maintenance and the quality of service
as a whole also your airline's large
Fleet and diverse range of routes give a
pilot like me a chance to continuously
learn and develop as a pilot your focus
on using Cutting Edge Technologies and
the best practices in your field shows
that you are looking into the future
which is something I want to be a part
of I am a great admirer of your airline
success which makes me excited about the
chance to join your team and use my
skills dedication and passion joining
your airline would not only be be a big
step up in my career but it would also
give me the chance to work for a company
that sets the highest standards in
aviation okay let's move on to the next
airline pilot interview question which
is tell me about the time when you had
to make a difficult decision in the air
wow this is a really tricky one again
make sure to use the star technique when
answering this compsy-based interview
question and tip number two make sure
that you showcase safety calculated
decision making calmness and good
communication in your answer to this
particular interview question so let's
take a look at Great top scoring answer
to help you tell me about the time when
you had to make a difficult decision in
the air one instance comes to mind in a
flight that I piloted last year during
the flight we ran into turbulence that
were stronger than expected and was not
forecasted passengers were upset and
worried as the pilot in command I had to
make a decision that made sure both the
passengers experience of the flight as a
whole and most importantly their safety
came first I talked to my co-pilot right
away and looked at real-time weather
updates I decided to divert to a nearby
airport where the weather was better
because I knew we needed to act quickly
initially it was hard to tell the
passengers and the cabin crew about the
decision but I tried to be clear and
calm in my announcements in order to
calm any worries as a result we were
able to steer clear of the rough spots
and make things easier for the
passengers clear and calm explanations
of the situation to both the cabin crew
and the passengers helped ease their
worries and built trust in what we were
doing this experience showed me how
important it is to make proactive
decisions it taught me that sticking to
the original plan is important but so is
being ready to change when things don't
go as planned it also showed how
important clear communication is both
between pilots and between passengers in
the end the decision to change course
not only kept everyone safe but also
helped the passengers and crew trust
each other more it is a good reminder
that in aviation safety and open
communication are the most important
things even when unexpected problems
come up now in preparation for your
airline pilot interview I also recommend
you prepare answers to the following
questions in your opinion what qualities
should a pilot possess as a pilot you
need to be a strong leader what
qualities are needed to become an
effective leader give me an example of a
situation you are in where you had to
deal with extreme stress the describe a
time when you had to take a risk whilst
at work
scribe a time when you followed strict
rules and procedures to complete a
complex task what can you tell us about
our Airline as a pilot you will need to
make difficult decisions on a regular
basis explain the decision-making
process you utilize whilst making
important decisions tell me about the
time when you demonstrated strong
customer service skills as a pilot why
is it important to have communication
skills as a pilot you will need to
demonstrate strong teamworking skills
tell me what the qualities of an
effective team player are so the next
thing to do if you would like to
accelerate your learning even further
and pass your interview at the first
attempt is to click that link right now
in the top right hand corner of this
video for two reasons the first reason
is that it will take you through to my
website howtobecome.com or you can get
all of these answers plus a total of 21
brilliant responses to airline pilot
interview questions and secondly the
next reason is I've given you three
smart questions to ask at the end of
your airline pilot interview on that
page it is a brilliant resource
guaranteed to help you perfectly for
your interview and also more importantly
put you ahead of the competition make
sure you check out that link I hope
you've enjoyed this tutorial please
don't forget to subscribe as I'm on a
mission table as many people as possible
pass their job interviews and I can only
do that if you are subscribed please
also hit that like button as that
encourages me to make more videos just
like this one and if you have any any
questions regarding specific Airlines do
let me know in the comments section
below where I will get back to you with
even more interview tips and advice and
finally don't forget to connect with me
on LinkedIn I've put my LinkedIn Link in
the description below it's always great
to connect with like-minded
professionals such as yourself thank you
so much for watching I wish you all the
best of your airline pilot interview
have a brilliant day